[Music]
now all the people of Judah took Isaiah
who was 16 years old and made him King
instead of his father a messiah he built
Allah and restored it to Judah after the
king rested with his father's as I was
16 years old when he became King and he
reigned 52 years in Jerusalem his
mother's name was Jack a liar of
Jerusalem and he did what was right in
the sight of the Lord according to all
that his father a messiah had done he
sought God in the days of Zechariah who
had understanding in the visions of God
and as long as he sought the Lord God
made him prosper now he went out and
made war against the Philistines and
broke down the wall of Gath the wall of
jab nur and the wall of Ashdod and he
built cities around a start and among
the Philistines God helped him against
the Philistines against the Arabians who
lived in ger Baio and against the mere
night's also the ammonites brought
tribute to Isaiah his fame spread as far
as the entrance of Egypt for he became
exceedingly strong and as ayah built
towers in Jerusalem at the corner gate
at the valley gate and at the corner
buttress of the wall when he fortified
also he built towers in the desert he
dug many wells for he had much livestock
both in the lowlands and in the plains
he also had farmers and vine dresses in
the mountains and in Carmel for he loved
the soil
moreover Isaiah had an army of fighting
men who went out to war by companies
according to the number on their role as
prepared by Gao the scribe and Mayor Cyr
the officer under the hand of Hananiah
one of the Kings captains the total
number of chief officers of the mighty
men of valor was 2600 and under their
authority was an army of three hundred
and seven thousand five hundred that
made war with mighty power to help the
king against the enemy then Isaiah
prepared for them for the entire army
shields Spears helmets body armor bows
and slings to cast stones and he made
devices in Jerusalem invented by
skillful men to be on the towers and the
corners to shoot arrows and large stones
so his fame spread far and wide for he
was marvelously helped till he became
strong
but when he was strong his heart was
lifted up to his destruction for he
transgressed against the Lord his God by
entering the temple of the Lord to burn
incense on the altar of incense so
Azariah the priest went in after him and
with him were 80 priests of the Lord
valiant men and they withstood King as
ayah and said to him it is not for you
as ayah to burn incense to the Lord but
for the priests the sons of Aaron who
were consecrated to burn incense get out
of the sanctuary for you have trespassed
you shall have no honor from the Lord
God then as I became furious and he had
a sensor in his hand to burn incense and
while he was angry with the priests
leprosy broke out on his forehead before
the priests in the house of the Lord
beside the incense altar and Azariah the
chief priests and all the priests looked
at him and there on his forehead he was
leprous so they thrust him out of that
place indeed he also hurried to get out
because the Lord had struck him King as
I was a leper until the day of his death
he dwelt in an isolated house because he
was a leper for he was cut off from the
house of the Lord
then Jotham his son was over the Kings
house judging the people of the land now
the rest of the acts of as IRA from
first to last
the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz wrote
so Isaiah rested with his father's and
they buried him with his father's in the
field of burial which belonged to the
kings for they said he is a leper then
Jotham his son reigned in his place